====== PAGE 7 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
FIGURE5. TherepresentationoftheBlockchainbasedcommunicationwithDNandEVparkinglotasaP2Pnetwork.
The nodes in the P2P network are the number of EVs
participatinginsatisfyingthedemandoftheDN.Theenergy
demandisassumedtobeevenlydistributedamongthenum-
berofparticipatingEVsandnotextractedfromasingleEV
as it may result into battery degradation if the same EV is
askedtodischargeandmeettherequirementseveryday.Let
theenergydemandfromDNbeD ,theamountofenergy
dem
neededfromeachEV,Ei,isgivenby,
FIGURE6. Energyandtransactionsflowduringlowandpeakdemand.
utilized during peak load hours to support the grid from Ei = D dem (6)
partiallyoverloading. EV
p
A. MATHEMATICALFORMULATIONOFENERGY AlltheparticipatingEV p maynothavethedesiredSOCto
TRADINGBETWEENDNANDEV deliveri.e.C r i em ≤E n i andifthisisthecasethentheminimum
The EVs with a minimum initial state of charge (SOC) i.e. C r i em amongtheEVswillbetheaggregatevaluewhichwill
SOCi greater than or equal to 75% of EVs full charge, becontributedbyallofthem.
denot in e i d t asCi,willonlyparticipateintheprocess. TheC r r em =min{C r i em }whereC r r em istheminimumcharge
F
amongallparticipatingEVs.Thiswillleadtothedischarge
SOC i i nit ≥0.75C F , i=1,2,...,EV p ,...,EV n (3) ofoneoftheEVswithonlySOCi leftforutilizationand
reach
whereEV n isthenumberofEVsintheparkinglotandEV p (EV p −1)numberofEVstosufficetheremainingdemand.
is the total number of participating EVs in energy trading The energy left to be supplied will again be equally dis-
process. Let the distance from the parking lot to the next tributedamongthe(EV p −1)vehicles.
charging point destination for an EV be di and state of The E sup is energy supplied by the participating EVs
EV
chargerequiredperkmbeSOCi .TheSOCrequiredtotravel representedby,
km
fromtheparkinglottothedestinationisdenotedas,
E =Cr ×EV (7)
SOCi =di ×SOCi (4) sup rem p
reach EV km
The charge left Ci after excluding the SOCi and a Theenergylefttobesuppliedisgivenas,
rem reach
tolerance of ±10% of full charge, Ci is represented in (5)
F D =D −E (8)
whichistheenergythatanEVcontributestotheDN, left dem sup
C r i em =SOC i i nit −SOC r i each −0.1C F i (5) ThiswillcontinueuntiltheDNrequirementsaremet.
8560 VOLUME8,2020

====== PAGE 8 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
B. ROLEOFBLOCKCHAININSECURINGENERGY
TRADINGBETWEENEVsANDDN
TheenergytradingbetweenEVsandDNcanbeconsidered
equivalenttotraditionaltradingbetweenconsumersandmer-
chant.Incontrasttothetraditionaltradingofanycommodity,
electricity market needs to produce the energy at the same
instancewhenitisrequiredandstoringhaslimitedoptions.
Similarly,inthetraditionalmarket,foranyfinancialtransac-
tions, the secure payment system will protect any financial
loss for a person or organization. Contrary to this, in the
energy market, not only transactional details are important
butalsoenergyflowinformationisimportant,asanyattack
ondata,mayleadtoparalyzedgridaffectinglargerpopulation FIGURE7. SecuringenergytradingbetweenEVandDNusingByzantine
withnoelectricity,inturncausinghugelossequivalenttoa basedconsensus.
blackout.
The major difference between the traditional trading and
EV-DN trading is that here the role of merchant-consumers
keeps on interchanging depending on the load condition of
thegrid.TheEVsactasamerchantandDNactasconsumers
during peak demand on the grid whereas EVs act as a con-
sumerandDNactasamerchantduringlowdemandonthe
grid as shown in Fig. 6. The scenario of energy trading is
initiatedbetweenEVandDNwhendemandongridincreases
whichresultsinabidirectionalflowofinformationbetween
EVsandDN.Thisbidirectionaltradingtakesplaceaccording
to the load demand on both sides. At the time of peak load
demandonDN,theenergyisgiventoDNfromEVssurplus
chargeasindicatedinFig.6.Accordingly,atlowloaddemand
on DN, the EV is charged by DN as shown in Fig. 6. This
two-waycommunicationrequirestheexchangeofenergyand FIGURE8. FalsedataattackonDNresultinginDNbeingtraitor.
transactionaldataresultinginanincreaseofprobabilitiesof
maliciousattack.Toavoidthemaliciousattackonthesystem, secured through blockchain, where the data content of each
blockchainplaysanimportantroleinbothsidetradingpro- nodeisstoredinimmutableblocks.Thedatacontentsuchas
cessbecauseofitsinherentpropertiesofsecurity.Inenergy theloadprofileofDNwithrespecttotime,weaknodesofthe
tradingprocessanymisleadinenergydemandorsupplymay system,loaddemandatweaknodeD dem ,thenumberofEVs
severely affect the grid, which can be protected by using participating in energy trading EV p , initial charge SOC init ,
the blockchain, where each energy and transactional details EVs required SOC to reach a next destination SOC reach ,
are stored in blocks. The blockchain store all the data with theamountofSOCthateachEVcanprovidetoaweaknode
it and link every stored data details cryptographically using of distribution system Ci . These data contents are cryp-
rem
SHA-256 algorithm, which makes the system immutable. tographically encrypted using a hash function (SHA-256),
The stored data in local blocks of blockchain is verified by as conveyed in Section II-B and its validation using BFT
differentconsensusprotocols,outofwhichByzantinebased basedconsensusmechanismisdiscussedasfollows. Acopy
consensus is considered in this paper. As shown in Fig. 7 of each node data is stored with all the other nodes for its
DNandEVformthenodesoftheP2Pnetwork.Theenergy validationamongthepeersofthenetworkasshowninFig.8
tradingbetweenEVandDNissecuredusingByzantinebased and Fig. 9. As discussed in Section II-A and Section III,
consensus.Oncetheconsensusisreachedbetweenthenodes theDNandEVsactasageneralandlieutenantrespectively.
ofthenetwork,theblockisappendedtotheblockchainindi- Fig. 8 explains the BGP with DN as a traitor. According to
catingnofalsedata.Thedetaildescriptionoftheachievement theByzantinealgorithmatfirst,theDNactasacommander
ofconsensusbetweennodesisexplainedinthenextsection. and sends its value to each EV. However, considering DN
being a traitor the message passed to EVs may vary from
oneanother.LettheoriginaldemandfromDNtoEVsbe‘1’,
V. BYZANTINEFAULTTOLERANCE(BFT)BASED the message ‘1’ is sent to some of the EVs whereas some
CONSENSUSWITHINBLOCKCHAIN of the EVs receive the message ‘0’ from DN due to cyber-
All nodes of the distribution system and participating EVs attack. All the EVs participating in energy trading act as a
in the parking lot will together make the nodes of the P2P lieutenantcommunicatingwitheachotherforverificationof
network.ThesenodesoftheP2Pnetworkareconnectedand themessagereceived.ItcanbeseenfromFig.8thatEV after
1
VOLUME8,2020 8561

====== PAGE 9 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
FIGURE9. FalsedataattackonEVresultinginEVbeingtraitor.
communicating with EV confirms that message received
2
fromDNis‘1’representedbythegreenline.However,ifEV
n
communicateswithEV 1 ,EV 2 ,andEV n−1 itcaneasilypredict
thatDNcommunicatedwronginformationrepresentedbya
red dotted line. In this way, all the participating EVs in the
energy trading process can identify any manipulated infor-
mation communicated by the attacker instead of the correct
informationfromDN.
Similarly,itisconsideredthatoutofallparticipatingEVs
oneoftheEVisatraitorwhichwillmisleadtheinformation
in energy trading process as shown in Fig. 9. The message
communicatedbyDNtoalltheEVsis‘1’.AsseeninFig.9
that EV being traitor communicates message ‘0’ to EV ,
1 2
EV n−1 ,andEV n representedbythereddottedline.However,
other EVs in energy trading process i.e. EV 2 , EV n−1 , and
EV aftercommunicatingwitheachothercaneasilypredict
n
thatmessagegivenbyDNis‘1’asrepresentedbythegreen
line. EVs after communicating with each other can finally
FIGURE10. Flowchartforsecuredenergytradingprocessbetween
conclude that EV is communicating manipulated informa- DNandEV.
1
tion.ThismanipulatedinformationbyDNbeingtraitororEV
beingtraitorcanbeverifiedwithAlgorithmOM(m),m > 0 iscorrupted,thisconsensusalgorithmbetweennodeshelpsto
asdescribedinSectionII-A.Afterthecollectionofallvalues, recoverfromplausibleattacks.Animportantroleofthechain
theEVusesthevalueofmajorityforenergytradingprocess. ofblocksistomakethedatasecure,safeandimmutable,thus
Thus,withthehelpofBFTbasedconsensusbetweentheEVs making the attack difficult. For the attacker to get into the
andDNtheerroneousdatacanbeverifiedandthevalidblock systemdata,morethan33%ofdatashouldbehacked,which
isappended. isrelativelyverydifficultforintrusionandtime-consuming.
IntheprocessofByzantinebasedconsensus,thepeerwith Fig.10representstheflowoftheproposedframework.Atthe
the least block execution time becomes the leader node and start, the DN initialize its demand and communicate with
the rest of the peer nodes will receive the request of the EVs in the parking lot. The EVs with SOC more than 75%
transaction i.e. the local block, for its corresponding verifi- areallowedtoparticipateinthetradingprocesselsetheEVs
cation.Fromherethevalidatedtransactionsarebroadcasted are declined to participate. The DN nodes and participating
tootherpeersincludingtheleadernode[47].Thislocalblock EVs forms the peers of the network. For the participating
is now a Genesis Block of the chain. However, there can EV vehicles,eachEVSOCi ,Ci ,Crem,SOCinit,and
p reach rem r i
be a number of transactional rounds to be appended to the Ei arecalculated.Thiscalculateddatacopyisgiventoeach
block.Theninordertomakesurethatthereceivedblockis nodeofthenetwork.Usingthisdatacontent,theblocksare
valid, the leftover nodes double-check the same procedure minedandeachnodeformstheirownlocalblock.Theoverall
and re-execute the block. If the proposed block is the same messageSishashedusingSHA256asF .Thetargetvalue
#
as the 2/3rd of calculated blocks, the consensus is reached is set by defining the mining difficulty. After that the F
#
betweenthenodes.Thustheblockgetsappendedtothechain. and target value T is compared with the condition F ≤ T.
#
However,inthepresenceofanattackscenario,wherethedata Iftheconditionissatisfiedthelocalblockisformedelsethe
8562 VOLUME8,2020

====== PAGE 10 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
nonce value is incremented by 1. This local block is sent to
each node and verified using Byzantine based oral message
algorithm.Iftheconsensusismatchedtheblockisappended
totheblockchain.Thus,energytradingprocessissecuredand
protectedfromcyber-attacks.
VI. REPRESENTATIVECASE-STUDYFOR
IEEE33NODETESTFEEDER
Inthefieldofthecontrolsystem,thesecurity-relatedissues
havesignificantlyincreasedinthepastfewyearsthatinclude
varioustypesofattacks,whichmayreplacethedatapackage
orinjectmaliciousinformationintothenetwork.Thediffer-
ent possible attack scenarios are visualized in the form of
false data for which BGP framework could be used which
statesthatforsuccessfulattack2/3rd ofinformationistobe FIGURE11. EnergydemandrequirementsbyDNwithoutanyfalsedata.
manipulated.Thevariouscasestudieswereconductedonthe
A. CASE1:SECURINGENERGYANDINFORMATION
differentIEEEbussystemandtheresultsobtainedfromIEEE
EXCHANGEPROCESSBETWEENEVsANDDN.
33bussystemispresented.IEEE33bussystemconsistsof
The energy trading between EVs and DN is illustrated in
onefeederwithfourdifferentlaterals,32branches,andapeak
Section IV. However, if the demand for DN increases the
loadof3715kW and2300kVAr[48].Therepresentativecase
SCADA communicates with EVs for additional demand
studyforhighlightingtheimpactofblockchainiscarriedout
required. EVs depending on their battery capacity will start
intwoparts;
the trading process by discharging their batteries. In case
• Case1:Securingenergyandinformationdataexchange
if demand on DN is more than the available power from
duringenergytradingbetweenEVsandDN.
EVsbatteries,SCADAwillcommunicatewithotherenergy
• Case2:Securingdifferentnodesofthesystem.
supplysources.Theroleofblockchaininsecuringthisenergy
Thedetailsofdifferentcasesandscenariosaresummarized and information exchange process between EVs and DN
inTable2. is described considering three scenarios. One in which the
communication between EVs and DN is described without
any false data and others in which communication between
TABLE2. Summaryofdifferentcasesandscenariosconsideredfor
representativecasestudy. EVsandDNisconsideredwithfalsedata.
1) SCENARIOI-COMMUNICATIONBETWEENEVs
ANDDNWITHOUTFALSEDATA
Considering an operating scenario as described in Table 3
the actual demand by DN is 150 kWh whereas the total
energy available from EV ( (cid:80) Ci ) is 130 kWh. As seen
p rem
from Fig. 11 EVs supply the available 130 kWh and the
remaining 20 kWh is arranged by SCADA. Thus it can be
seenthateventhoughEVsarenotabletocompletelysatisfy
therequirementsofDNthenalsopartialrequirementsofDN
are met in the absence of false data. This process of energy
andinformationexchangeispronetomaliciousattackwhich
mayleadtomanipulateddata.Iftotalenergyavailablefrom
EV ( (cid:80) Ci )isconsidered150kWhthenitcancompletely
p rem
satisfytheDNrequirementof150kWh.Insuchacase,there
is no need for the arrangement of additional power through
SCADA.
2) SCENARIOII-COMMUNICATIONBETWEENEVsAND
DNWITHFALSEDATA(WHEN (cid:80) Ci >D )
rem atk
InthisscenarioitisconsideredthattheactualdemandonDN
is same i.e. 150 kWh, however, if there is an attack on the
systemthefalsedatacommunicated(D )toEVsshowsDN
atk
requirementas50kWh.AsmentionedinScenarioI,EVstotal
VOLUME8,2020 8563

====== PAGE 11 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
TABLE3. Energydemandrequirementswithandwithoutfalsedata
presentinthesystemmodel.
FIGURE13. EnergydemandrequirementsbyDNwithfalsedatafor
scenarioIII.
whichisresponsibleforfrequencydeviationandmayresult
insynchronizationissues.
Withtheintroductionoftheblockchain,thisenergy-related
informationexchangebetweenDNandEVsissecured.How-
ever, thecomplexity of energytrading process willincrease
with the number of EVs. As each node data is stored with
all the other nodes of the network, the peer with the least
blockexecutiontimewillbecometheleadernode.Thedata
exchanged between the two parties i.e the DN and EVs
undergoes the process of encryption so as to form a block
i.e. leader block. For this local block to be a part of chain
validation, all the nodes of the network are queried and are
double-checked through Byzantine based consensus as dis-
cussedinSectionV.Intheblockchain,thedataisexchanged
in encrypted form and each block is cryptographically con-
nectedtoitspreviousblock.Itmakessystemcomputationally
more strong. The attack in the presence of blockchain is
difficult because the hacker needs to manipulate more than
FIGURE12. EnergydemandrequirementsbyDNwithfalsedatafor 33% of data which is a challenging calculation. This aspect
scenarioII. ofblockchainassuressystemsecurity.
energyavailableis130kWhwhichcaneasilysatisfytheD B. CASE2:SECURINGDIFFERENTNODES
atk
i.e.50kWh.EVsstartstofeedtherequiredpowerandsatisfy OFTHEPROPOSEDMODEL
the false requirements of DN. However, it can be seen that Considering the N-node system and possible attacks at four
duetomanipulateddemandtherequirementofDNremains different points in the proposed network system. As shown
unsatisfied as shown in Fig 12. This may give rise to the inFig.14theattackcanoccurasfollows,
adversarialeffectonthesystemwhichresultsinperformance i) Attackonsensordata/sendernode
deterioration of the system and may consequently lead to a ii) AttackonCommunicationlinks
blackout. iii) ManipulationintheSCADAinformation
iv) Attackonactuators/receiverend
3) SCENARIOIII-COMMUNICATIONBETWEENEVsAND The IEEE 33 bus system consists of 33-nodes and
DNWITHFALSEDATA(WHEN (cid:80) Ci <D ) 32 branches. It is assumed that the parking lot has 50 EVs
rem atk
Considering the operating scenario with D from DN as parked at the time of energy trading. The total number of
dem
100 kWh and the false data communicated (D ) to EVs sensorsinthisnetworkedsystemiscalculatedbyconsidering
atk
indicating DN requirement as 250 kWh. As the total power the total number of sensors required for DN (nDN) as well
sen
available by EVs is 130 kWh it would be obviously utilized asconsideringthetotalnumberofsensorsrequiredforEVs
tofulfill(false)gridrequirement.ItcanbeseenfromFig.13 parking lot (nEV). While calculating (nDN) the following
sen sen
that the DN requirement of 100 kWh is satisfied, however, featuresareconsidered[44]:Forreadingparameterssuchas
surpluspowerfedbyEVsleadstoover-compensationofDN voltage, current, power etc. a sensor is placed at each node
8564 VOLUME8,2020

