====== PAGE 7 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
FIGURE5. TherepresentationoftheBlockchainbasedcommunicationwithDNandEVparkinglotasaP2Pnetwork.
The nodes in the P2P network are the number of EVs
participatinginsatisfyingthedemandoftheDN.Theenergy
demandisassumedtobeevenlydistributedamongthenum-
berofparticipatingEVsandnotextractedfromasingleEV
as it may result into battery degradation if the same EV is
askedtodischargeandmeettherequirementseveryday.Let
theenergydemandfromDNbeD ,theamountofenergy
dem
neededfromeachEV,Ei,isgivenby,
FIGURE6. Energyandtransactionsflowduringlowandpeakdemand.
utilized during peak load hours to support the grid from Ei = D dem (6)
partiallyoverloading. EV
p
A. MATHEMATICALFORMULATIONOFENERGY AlltheparticipatingEV p maynothavethedesiredSOCto
TRADINGBETWEENDNANDEV deliveri.e.C r i em ≤E n i andifthisisthecasethentheminimum
The EVs with a minimum initial state of charge (SOC) i.e. C r i em amongtheEVswillbetheaggregatevaluewhichwill
SOCi greater than or equal to 75% of EVs full charge, becontributedbyallofthem.
denot in e i d t asCi,willonlyparticipateintheprocess. TheC r r em =min{C r i em }whereC r r em istheminimumcharge
F
amongallparticipatingEVs.Thiswillleadtothedischarge
SOC i i nit ≥0.75C F , i=1,2,...,EV p ,...,EV n (3) ofoneoftheEVswithonlySOCi leftforutilizationand
reach
whereEV n isthenumberofEVsintheparkinglotandEV p (EV p −1)numberofEVstosufficetheremainingdemand.
is the total number of participating EVs in energy trading The energy left to be supplied will again be equally dis-
process. Let the distance from the parking lot to the next tributedamongthe(EV p −1)vehicles.
charging point destination for an EV be di and state of The E sup is energy supplied by the participating EVs
EV
chargerequiredperkmbeSOCi .TheSOCrequiredtotravel representedby,
km
fromtheparkinglottothedestinationisdenotedas,
E =Cr ×EV (7)
SOCi =di ×SOCi (4) sup rem p
reach EV km
The charge left Ci after excluding the SOCi and a Theenergylefttobesuppliedisgivenas,
rem reach
tolerance of ±10% of full charge, Ci is represented in (5)
F D =D −E (8)
whichistheenergythatanEVcontributestotheDN, left dem sup
C r i em =SOC i i nit −SOC r i each −0.1C F i (5) ThiswillcontinueuntiltheDNrequirementsaremet.
8560 VOLUME8,2020

====== PAGE 8 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
B. ROLEOFBLOCKCHAININSECURINGENERGY
TRADINGBETWEENEVsANDDN
TheenergytradingbetweenEVsandDNcanbeconsidered
equivalenttotraditionaltradingbetweenconsumersandmer-
chant.Incontrasttothetraditionaltradingofanycommodity,
electricity market needs to produce the energy at the same
instancewhenitisrequiredandstoringhaslimitedoptions.
Similarly,inthetraditionalmarket,foranyfinancialtransac-
tions, the secure payment system will protect any financial
loss for a person or organization. Contrary to this, in the
energy market, not only transactional details are important
butalsoenergyflowinformationisimportant,asanyattack
ondata,mayleadtoparalyzedgridaffectinglargerpopulation FIGURE7. SecuringenergytradingbetweenEVandDNusingByzantine
withnoelectricity,inturncausinghugelossequivalenttoa basedconsensus.
blackout.
The major difference between the traditional trading and
EV-DN trading is that here the role of merchant-consumers
keeps on interchanging depending on the load condition of
thegrid.TheEVsactasamerchantandDNactasconsumers
during peak demand on the grid whereas EVs act as a con-
sumerandDNactasamerchantduringlowdemandonthe
grid as shown in Fig. 6. The scenario of energy trading is
initiatedbetweenEVandDNwhendemandongridincreases
whichresultsinabidirectionalflowofinformationbetween
EVsandDN.Thisbidirectionaltradingtakesplaceaccording
to the load demand on both sides. At the time of peak load
demandonDN,theenergyisgiventoDNfromEVssurplus
chargeasindicatedinFig.6.Accordingly,atlowloaddemand
on DN, the EV is charged by DN as shown in Fig. 6. This
two-waycommunicationrequirestheexchangeofenergyand FIGURE8. FalsedataattackonDNresultinginDNbeingtraitor.
transactionaldataresultinginanincreaseofprobabilitiesof
maliciousattack.Toavoidthemaliciousattackonthesystem, secured through blockchain, where the data content of each
blockchainplaysanimportantroleinbothsidetradingpro- nodeisstoredinimmutableblocks.Thedatacontentsuchas
cessbecauseofitsinherentpropertiesofsecurity.Inenergy theloadprofileofDNwithrespecttotime,weaknodesofthe
tradingprocessanymisleadinenergydemandorsupplymay system,loaddemandatweaknodeD dem ,thenumberofEVs
severely affect the grid, which can be protected by using participating in energy trading EV p , initial charge SOC init ,
the blockchain, where each energy and transactional details EVs required SOC to reach a next destination SOC reach ,
are stored in blocks. The blockchain store all the data with theamountofSOCthateachEVcanprovidetoaweaknode
it and link every stored data details cryptographically using of distribution system Ci . These data contents are cryp-
rem
SHA-256 algorithm, which makes the system immutable. tographically encrypted using a hash function (SHA-256),
The stored data in local blocks of blockchain is verified by as conveyed in Section II-B and its validation using BFT
differentconsensusprotocols,outofwhichByzantinebased basedconsensusmechanismisdiscussedasfollows. Acopy
consensus is considered in this paper. As shown in Fig. 7 of each node data is stored with all the other nodes for its
DNandEVformthenodesoftheP2Pnetwork.Theenergy validationamongthepeersofthenetworkasshowninFig.8
tradingbetweenEVandDNissecuredusingByzantinebased and Fig. 9. As discussed in Section II-A and Section III,
consensus.Oncetheconsensusisreachedbetweenthenodes theDNandEVsactasageneralandlieutenantrespectively.
ofthenetwork,theblockisappendedtotheblockchainindi- Fig. 8 explains the BGP with DN as a traitor. According to
catingnofalsedata.Thedetaildescriptionoftheachievement theByzantinealgorithmatfirst,theDNactasacommander
ofconsensusbetweennodesisexplainedinthenextsection. and sends its value to each EV. However, considering DN
being a traitor the message passed to EVs may vary from
oneanother.LettheoriginaldemandfromDNtoEVsbe‘1’,
V. BYZANTINEFAULTTOLERANCE(BFT)BASED the message ‘1’ is sent to some of the EVs whereas some
CONSENSUSWITHINBLOCKCHAIN of the EVs receive the message ‘0’ from DN due to cyber-
All nodes of the distribution system and participating EVs attack. All the EVs participating in energy trading act as a
in the parking lot will together make the nodes of the P2P lieutenantcommunicatingwitheachotherforverificationof
network.ThesenodesoftheP2Pnetworkareconnectedand themessagereceived.ItcanbeseenfromFig.8thatEV after
1
VOLUME8,2020 8561

====== PAGE 9 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
FIGURE9. FalsedataattackonEVresultinginEVbeingtraitor.
communicating with EV confirms that message received
2
fromDNis‘1’representedbythegreenline.However,ifEV
n
communicateswithEV 1 ,EV 2 ,andEV n−1 itcaneasilypredict
thatDNcommunicatedwronginformationrepresentedbya
red dotted line. In this way, all the participating EVs in the
energy trading process can identify any manipulated infor-
mation communicated by the attacker instead of the correct
informationfromDN.
Similarly,itisconsideredthatoutofallparticipatingEVs
oneoftheEVisatraitorwhichwillmisleadtheinformation
in energy trading process as shown in Fig. 9. The message
communicatedbyDNtoalltheEVsis‘1’.AsseeninFig.9
that EV being traitor communicates message ‘0’ to EV ,
1 2
EV n−1 ,andEV n representedbythereddottedline.However,
other EVs in energy trading process i.e. EV 2 , EV n−1 , and
EV aftercommunicatingwitheachothercaneasilypredict
n
thatmessagegivenbyDNis‘1’asrepresentedbythegreen
line. EVs after communicating with each other can finally
FIGURE10. Flowchartforsecuredenergytradingprocessbetween
conclude that EV is communicating manipulated informa- DNandEV.
1
tion.ThismanipulatedinformationbyDNbeingtraitororEV
beingtraitorcanbeverifiedwithAlgorithmOM(m),m > 0 iscorrupted,thisconsensusalgorithmbetweennodeshelpsto
asdescribedinSectionII-A.Afterthecollectionofallvalues, recoverfromplausibleattacks.Animportantroleofthechain
theEVusesthevalueofmajorityforenergytradingprocess. ofblocksistomakethedatasecure,safeandimmutable,thus
Thus,withthehelpofBFTbasedconsensusbetweentheEVs making the attack difficult. For the attacker to get into the
andDNtheerroneousdatacanbeverifiedandthevalidblock systemdata,morethan33%ofdatashouldbehacked,which
isappended. isrelativelyverydifficultforintrusionandtime-consuming.
IntheprocessofByzantinebasedconsensus,thepeerwith Fig.10representstheflowoftheproposedframework.Atthe
the least block execution time becomes the leader node and start, the DN initialize its demand and communicate with
the rest of the peer nodes will receive the request of the EVs in the parking lot. The EVs with SOC more than 75%
transaction i.e. the local block, for its corresponding verifi- areallowedtoparticipateinthetradingprocesselsetheEVs
cation.Fromherethevalidatedtransactionsarebroadcasted are declined to participate. The DN nodes and participating
tootherpeersincludingtheleadernode[47].Thislocalblock EVs forms the peers of the network. For the participating
is now a Genesis Block of the chain. However, there can EV vehicles,eachEVSOCi ,Ci ,Crem,SOCinit,and
p reach rem r i
be a number of transactional rounds to be appended to the Ei arecalculated.Thiscalculateddatacopyisgiventoeach
block.Theninordertomakesurethatthereceivedblockis nodeofthenetwork.Usingthisdatacontent,theblocksare
valid, the leftover nodes double-check the same procedure minedandeachnodeformstheirownlocalblock.Theoverall
and re-execute the block. If the proposed block is the same messageSishashedusingSHA256asF .Thetargetvalue
#
as the 2/3rd of calculated blocks, the consensus is reached is set by defining the mining difficulty. After that the F
#
betweenthenodes.Thustheblockgetsappendedtothechain. and target value T is compared with the condition F ≤ T.
#
However,inthepresenceofanattackscenario,wherethedata Iftheconditionissatisfiedthelocalblockisformedelsethe
8562 VOLUME8,2020

====== PAGE 10 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
nonce value is incremented by 1. This local block is sent to
each node and verified using Byzantine based oral message
algorithm.Iftheconsensusismatchedtheblockisappended
totheblockchain.Thus,energytradingprocessissecuredand
protectedfromcyber-attacks.
VI. REPRESENTATIVECASE-STUDYFOR
IEEE33NODETESTFEEDER
Inthefieldofthecontrolsystem,thesecurity-relatedissues
havesignificantlyincreasedinthepastfewyearsthatinclude
varioustypesofattacks,whichmayreplacethedatapackage
orinjectmaliciousinformationintothenetwork.Thediffer-
ent possible attack scenarios are visualized in the form of
false data for which BGP framework could be used which
statesthatforsuccessfulattack2/3rd ofinformationistobe FIGURE11. EnergydemandrequirementsbyDNwithoutanyfalsedata.
manipulated.Thevariouscasestudieswereconductedonthe
A. CASE1:SECURINGENERGYANDINFORMATION
differentIEEEbussystemandtheresultsobtainedfromIEEE
EXCHANGEPROCESSBETWEENEVsANDDN.
33bussystemispresented.IEEE33bussystemconsistsof
The energy trading between EVs and DN is illustrated in
onefeederwithfourdifferentlaterals,32branches,andapeak
Section IV. However, if the demand for DN increases the
loadof3715kW and2300kVAr[48].Therepresentativecase
SCADA communicates with EVs for additional demand
studyforhighlightingtheimpactofblockchainiscarriedout
required. EVs depending on their battery capacity will start
intwoparts;
the trading process by discharging their batteries. In case
• Case1:Securingenergyandinformationdataexchange
if demand on DN is more than the available power from
duringenergytradingbetweenEVsandDN.
EVsbatteries,SCADAwillcommunicatewithotherenergy
• Case2:Securingdifferentnodesofthesystem.
supplysources.Theroleofblockchaininsecuringthisenergy
Thedetailsofdifferentcasesandscenariosaresummarized and information exchange process between EVs and DN
inTable2. is described considering three scenarios. One in which the
communication between EVs and DN is described without
any false data and others in which communication between
TABLE2. Summaryofdifferentcasesandscenariosconsideredfor
representativecasestudy. EVsandDNisconsideredwithfalsedata.
1) SCENARIOI-COMMUNICATIONBETWEENEVs
ANDDNWITHOUTFALSEDATA
Considering an operating scenario as described in Table 3
the actual demand by DN is 150 kWh whereas the total
energy available from EV ( (cid:80) Ci ) is 130 kWh. As seen
p rem
from Fig. 11 EVs supply the available 130 kWh and the
remaining 20 kWh is arranged by SCADA. Thus it can be
seenthateventhoughEVsarenotabletocompletelysatisfy
therequirementsofDNthenalsopartialrequirementsofDN
are met in the absence of false data. This process of energy
andinformationexchangeispronetomaliciousattackwhich
mayleadtomanipulateddata.Iftotalenergyavailablefrom
EV ( (cid:80) Ci )isconsidered150kWhthenitcancompletely
p rem
satisfytheDNrequirementof150kWh.Insuchacase,there
is no need for the arrangement of additional power through
SCADA.
2) SCENARIOII-COMMUNICATIONBETWEENEVsAND
DNWITHFALSEDATA(WHEN (cid:80) Ci >D )
rem atk
InthisscenarioitisconsideredthattheactualdemandonDN
is same i.e. 150 kWh, however, if there is an attack on the
systemthefalsedatacommunicated(D )toEVsshowsDN
atk
requirementas50kWh.AsmentionedinScenarioI,EVstotal
VOLUME8,2020 8563

====== PAGE 11 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
TABLE3. Energydemandrequirementswithandwithoutfalsedata
presentinthesystemmodel.
FIGURE13. EnergydemandrequirementsbyDNwithfalsedatafor
scenarioIII.
whichisresponsibleforfrequencydeviationandmayresult
insynchronizationissues.
Withtheintroductionoftheblockchain,thisenergy-related
informationexchangebetweenDNandEVsissecured.How-
ever, thecomplexity of energytrading process willincrease
with the number of EVs. As each node data is stored with
all the other nodes of the network, the peer with the least
blockexecutiontimewillbecometheleadernode.Thedata
exchanged between the two parties i.e the DN and EVs
undergoes the process of encryption so as to form a block
i.e. leader block. For this local block to be a part of chain
validation, all the nodes of the network are queried and are
double-checked through Byzantine based consensus as dis-
cussedinSectionV.Intheblockchain,thedataisexchanged
in encrypted form and each block is cryptographically con-
nectedtoitspreviousblock.Itmakessystemcomputationally
more strong. The attack in the presence of blockchain is
difficult because the hacker needs to manipulate more than
FIGURE12. EnergydemandrequirementsbyDNwithfalsedatafor 33% of data which is a challenging calculation. This aspect
scenarioII. ofblockchainassuressystemsecurity.
energyavailableis130kWhwhichcaneasilysatisfytheD B. CASE2:SECURINGDIFFERENTNODES
atk
i.e.50kWh.EVsstartstofeedtherequiredpowerandsatisfy OFTHEPROPOSEDMODEL
the false requirements of DN. However, it can be seen that Considering the N-node system and possible attacks at four
duetomanipulateddemandtherequirementofDNremains different points in the proposed network system. As shown
unsatisfied as shown in Fig 12. This may give rise to the inFig.14theattackcanoccurasfollows,
adversarialeffectonthesystemwhichresultsinperformance i) Attackonsensordata/sendernode
deterioration of the system and may consequently lead to a ii) AttackonCommunicationlinks
blackout. iii) ManipulationintheSCADAinformation
iv) Attackonactuators/receiverend
3) SCENARIOIII-COMMUNICATIONBETWEENEVsAND The IEEE 33 bus system consists of 33-nodes and
DNWITHFALSEDATA(WHEN (cid:80) Ci <D ) 32 branches. It is assumed that the parking lot has 50 EVs
rem atk
Considering the operating scenario with D from DN as parked at the time of energy trading. The total number of
dem
100 kWh and the false data communicated (D ) to EVs sensorsinthisnetworkedsystemiscalculatedbyconsidering
atk
indicating DN requirement as 250 kWh. As the total power the total number of sensors required for DN (nDN) as well
sen
available by EVs is 130 kWh it would be obviously utilized asconsideringthetotalnumberofsensorsrequiredforEVs
tofulfill(false)gridrequirement.ItcanbeseenfromFig.13 parking lot (nEV). While calculating (nDN) the following
sen sen
that the DN requirement of 100 kWh is satisfied, however, featuresareconsidered[44]:Forreadingparameterssuchas
surpluspowerfedbyEVsleadstoover-compensationofDN voltage, current, power etc. a sensor is placed at each node
8564 VOLUME8,2020

====== PAGE 12 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
FIGURE14. AttackondifferentnodesofP2Pnetwork.
(Nread);forcheckinglinestatus(open/close)eachbranchhas (ii) Attack on communication links, considering n
DN sen
asensor(Bstatus);andforreadingparameterssuchasvoltage, sensors to be linked with communication channels,
DN
current, power etc. two sensors are placed at both ends of theprobabilityofattacktoreplacethedatapackageson
line(Bread). communicationlinksgivenbyβ anddenotedbyP ,
DN i CA
wherein(0≤β ≤1),i=(1,2,...,n ,..N).
nDN = Nread +Bstatus+Bread (9) i sen
sen DN DN DN
nDN = 33+32+(32×2) (10) 1(cid:89)
nsen
sen P = β (15)
CA i
S
Similarly,whilecalculating(nEV)thefollowingfeaturesare i=1
sen
considered [44]: For reading parameters such as voltage,
(iii) TheinformationdisclosureattackontheSCADAsys-
current, power etc. a sensor is placed at each node (Nread);
EV tem,wherethenetworkprovidesmanyredundantdata
for checking communication links status (open/close) each
since during certain period of time all registered sen-
links has asensor (Lstatus); and forreading parameters such
EV sors in the network have a collection of all mea-
asvoltage,current,poweretc.twosensorsareplacedatboth
sured nodes data. Let the probability of an attack on
endsofcommunicationchannels(Lread).
EV SCADAsysteminformationbeP SCADA ,withtherange
nEV = Nread +Lstatus+Lread (11) [0.01,0.05][44].
sen EV EV EV (iv) The attack at the receiver end where idle EVs are
nEV = 50+1225+(1225×2) (12)
sen parked in the parking lot. The attacker may manipu-
late the action of actuators. Let the probability of an
Finally,thetotalnumberofsensorsisgivenby,
attackonreceivingenddenotedbyP ,withtherange
R
n sen =nD se N n +nE se V n =3854 (13) [0.01,0.05][44].
Let the overall probability for an attacker to attack the
Thedetaildescriptionofattackscenarioforthesystemwith
system be P , which is the sum of all possibilities of
andwithoutsecurityisexplainedintheprecedingsection. TA
attack at four different points of the system. It is assumed
that for an attacker to manipulate any information (con-
1) SCENARIOI-ATTACKSCENARIOFORTHESYSTEM
trol center information excluded) the attacking probability
WITHNOSECURITY
is equal and selected to be x i.e. α = β = x. The
Thepossibleattacksonsystemmodelwithoutanyprotection i i
value of x lies in the range of 0.9 to 0.999, which indicates
systemisillustratedinthisscenario.Inthiscase,hackinginto
the proposed system to be exposed to the highest vulner-
afewdatamayleadtoasuccessfulattack.Theprobabilities
abilities. Then, the overall success probability P of this
ofattackateachpointareasfollows, TA
attack launch without the inclusion of blockchain can be
(i) Tampering on sensors data information or physically
calculatedas:
manipulating the sensor nodes. The probability of
attacker to hack into n sen sensors is denoted by P SA , 1 (cid:89) nsen (cid:89) nsen
wherein α i is the probability of attack each sensor P TA = 4 ( α i + β i +P SCADA +P R ) (16)
(0≤α ≤1),i=(1,2,...,n ,..N). i=1 i=1
i sen
1
1(cid:89) nsen = (2xnsen +0.01+0.01)
P = α (14) 4
SA i
S
i=1 Thesuccessprobabilityofattackswithoutanysecurityappli-
whereS isthenumberofsamplesize cationisrepresentedinFig.15.
VOLUME8,2020 8565

====== PAGE 13 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
FIGURE15. Thesuccessprobabilityofattackwithoutinclusion
ofblockchain. FIGURE16. Thesuccessprobabilityofattackwiththeinclusion
ofblockchain.
2) SCENARIOII-ATTACKSCENARIOFORTHESYSTEM
data to manipulate. Thus, the attack probability on
WITHTHEINCLUSIONOFBLOCKCHAIN
SCADAisgivenas,
Theattackpossibilitiesinpresenceofblockchainareformu-
latedinordertomitigate theattacksonthenetwork.Inthis
1 (cid:89)
nsen
scenario, the attacker needs to steal n sen corresponding key P SCADAb = S (P SCADA × γ i ) (19)
informationsoastohashthedatausedindatatransmission i=1
anddataverification.Thus,leadingtoanincreaseinthenum- (iv) Theprobabilityofattackatthereceiverend,thatisafter
berofinformationtobemanipulatedforanattackertointrude completion of data verification process, the attacker
intothesystem.Stealingthisn sen keyinformationisdifficult needs to hack into majority of the nodes, that is
becauseittakeslargecomputationaltimeandtheByzantine k = n ×33%,toreachonfalseconsensus.There-
2 sen
condition of hacking more than 33% data is proven to be fore,theattackprobabilityisgivenas,
challenging to accomplish. Considering the same possible
attack points as in Section VI-B1 with n sen key data to be P = 1 ( (cid:89)
k2
P × (cid:89)
nsen
γ) (20)
hackedineachpointofattack. Rb S Ri i
i=1 i=1
(i) Whenthereisanattackonsensorstheattackerhasto
Theoverallsuccessprobabilityofanattackisrepresented
hackinton sensorsdataaswellashastostealn
sen sen
as, P . It is assumed that for an attacker to manipu-
keyinformationsuchashashvalues,publickeyorpri- TAb
late any information (control center information excluded)
vatekeysoastohashthedata.Theprobabilityofsteal-
ing n key information is γ, wherein (0≤γ ≤1). the attacking probability is equal and selected to be x i.e.
sen i i α = β = γ = P = x. The value of x lies in the range
Lettheprobabilityoflaunchingthisattackbe, i i i Ri
of 0.9 to 0.999, which indicates the proposed system to be
1 (cid:89)
nsen
(cid:89)
nsen
exposed to highest vulnerabilities. Therefore for launching
P = ( α × γ) (17)
SAb S i i theattackinscenarioBiscalculatedas,
i=1 i=1
(ii) Thesecondsituationwheretheprobabilityofanattack P = 1(cid:2) ( (cid:89)
nsen
α × (cid:89)
nsen
γ)+( (cid:89)
k1
β × (cid:89)
nsen
γ)
toreplacethedatawhendataistransmittingfromone
TAb
4
i i i i
i=1 i=1 i=1 i=1
nodetoothernodes.Letthenumberofcommunication (cid:124) (cid:123)(cid:122) (cid:125) (cid:124) (cid:123)(cid:122) (cid:125)
channelsbek =n
sen
(n
sen
−1)/2,theattackprobability PSAb PCAb
P
of
C
h
Ab
a
.
ck
A
in
s
g
k
i
n
n
o
t
w
o
n
k
,
c
f
o
o
m
r
m
an
u
y
ni
a
c
t
a
ta
ti
c
o
k
n
er
ch
t
a
o
n
i
n
n
e
t
l
r
s
ud
d
e
en
i
o
n
t
t
e
o
d
t
b
h
y
e + ( (cid:89)
k2
P Ri × (cid:89)
nsen
γ i )+(P SCADAb × (cid:89)
nsen
γ i ) (cid:3) (21)
systemwhichissecuredbyblockchain,ithastohack i=1 i=1 i=1
(cid:124) (cid:123)(cid:122) (cid:125) (cid:124) (cid:123)(cid:122) (cid:125)
atleast33%information.Therefore,k =k×33%has
1 PRb PSCADAb
tobeattackedforsuccessandalson sen keyinformation 1
tobeattacked. P TAb =
4
xnsen[xnsen +x3786613+x1966+P SCADAb ] (22)
1 (cid:89) ki (cid:89) nsen InFig.16thesuccessprobabilityofattackwiththeinclu-
P = ( β × γ) (18)
CAb
S
i i sionofblockchainisdemonstrated,wherethesuccessrateof
i=1 i=1 attacksisconsiderablyreduced.
(iii) The attack on SCADA leads to manipulated infor- In Fig. 15 the success probability of attack is high as
mation as explained in Section VI-B1. The proba- comparedtoFig.16.Itisknownthat,thelesserthenumber
bility of attack is given as P , with the range ofsensors,moreistheprobabilityofattack.Similarly,asthe
SCADAb
[0.01,0.05][44]andalsowithn correspondingkey numberofsensorsincreasesthesuccessprobabilityofattack
sen
8566 VOLUME8,2020

====== PAGE 14 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
TABLE4. Possiblesystemattacksandtheirsuccessprobabilities. TABLE5. Comparativeanalysisofproposedschemewithexisting
approaches.
isrelativelydecreased.However,incaseofattackscenariofor
TABLE6. Comparisonofhashalgorithm.
thesystemwithnosecurity,eventhoughwithhighnumberof
sensorsthechanceofdatamanipulationishighintherange
oflowuncertainty.AsseenfromFig.16withtheinclusionof
blockchainthesuccessprobabilityofattackiscomparatively
low and it is more reliable with an increased number of
sensors or nodes in the network. The success probability of
an attack with and without the inclusion of blockchain is
summarized in Table 4. It may be claimed that the success
probabilityofattackisapproximatelyhalfwiththeinclusion
of blockchain as shown in Fig. 16 as compared to Fig. 15.
The range of x is selected between 0.9 and 0.999 in the
representativecasestudyisveryhighwhichimpliesthatthe
energytradingprocessiscompletelypronetoattacks.
C. OBSERVATIONS/COMPARISONWITH
EXISTINGMETHODS
Acomparativeanalysisoftheproposedschemewithexisting
approaches is given in Table 5. It can be seen from the atrustedparty.Thisresultsinanoverallimprovementinthe
Table 5 that authors of [31] and [32] employs SHA 1 algo- safetyofByzantineconsensusasonly‘‘permissioned’’nodes
rithm for a hash process whereas the authors of [30] and areallowedtoparticipateintheconsensusprocess.
the proposed scheme utilized SHA 256 algorithm for the
hashprocess.TheadvantageofusingtheSHA256algorithm 2) CONSENSUSFINALITY
over SHA 1 algorithm is given in Table 6. As seen from The consensus finality has a property that once the block
Table 6 SHA 256 algorithm is more secure as compared is appended to the blockchain at some time instant, by a
to SHA 1 algorithm when there is an attack on the system valid block, will never be removed from the chain. In PoW
alsothepowerconsumedforSHA256algorithmis14.8Wh the block frequency is regulated to avoid the block colli-
whereasforSHA1itis17.5Wh.ThuswiththehelpofTable6 sions known as a randomized concurrency control mecha-
it can be concluded that the SHA 256 algorithm employed nism. With concurrency control, the block generation takes
in the proposed scheme is more efficient as compared some time and collisions do happen, eventually leading to
toSHA1. temporary splits (forks) on the blockchain. The presence
Thenextimportantfeatureoftheproposedschemeisthatit of these temporary splits results into no consensus final-
employsByzantineconsensusforenergytradingapplication ity, the absence of consensus finality introduces the latency
ascomparedtoliterature[30]–[32].TheadvantagesofBFT in the transaction process. Thus the PoW does not sat-
consensusoverPoWareasfollows: isfy the consensus finality. In contrast, the consensus final-
ity is satisfied by BFT where the protocols are built upon
1) IDENTITYMANAGEMENTOFNODES consensus.
ThekeyfeatureofPoWisthatthenodeidentitymanagement
is entirely decentralized, where any nodes can participate 3) SCALABILITY
without permission. In contrast, the Byzantine consensus is The scalability of both PoW and BFT based blockchain in
entirelycentralizedwhereeachparticipatingnodeisissueda termsofnumberofclientsisscalewellandprovidesupport
cryptographicaswellasidentitycertificatewiththehelpof tothousandsofclients.
VOLUME8,2020 8567

====== PAGE 15 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
TABLE7. ComparisonofPoWandByzantinebasedconsensus. TABLE8. Symbolsandabbreviationsdescription.
4) PERFORMANCE
Theblockfrequencyandblocksizearethetwomostimpor-
tant parameters for analyzing the performance of a PoW
blockchain. The increase in block size for boosting the
throughput results in an increase of latency because larger
blocks lead to propagation delay across the Internet. These
longerdelaysmayleadtosecurityissuesbecausewithlonger
delays there is an increase in the number of forks and also
the possibility of attacks increases. Even with the increase 50%ofhashpoweriscontrolledbyadversarythanitremains
ofblockfrequencyforreducingthelatencyresultsinsimilar invulnerable.However,yearslateritwasclaimedby[53]that
security challenges. However, in case of BFT protocols as Bitcoinisvulnerableevenif25%ofhashpoweriscontrolled
prototypes and also practical systems can support transac- by an adversary. In contradictory BFT can tolerate at the
tions in range of tens of thousands with latencies equal to most corrupted nodes whose value is equal to 1/3 nodes.
network-speed[49]–[52]. Forthisconditiontoremaintruethenetworkshouldbefully
asynchronousonatimelybasis.
5) ADVERSARY
TheimportantfeaturesofPoWblockchainishowmuchcom- 6) NETWORKSYNCHRONY
putational (hash) power can be controlled by an adversary. A timestamp plays an important role in Bitcoin, where the
IntheinitialphaseofBitcoin,itwasassumedthatiflessthan blockisacceptableonlyifit’stimestampisgreaterthanthe
8568 VOLUME8,2020

====== PAGE 16 ======
A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
TABLE8. (Continued)Symbolsandabbreviationsdescription. investigated in two cases with different operating scenarios.
Inthefirstone,theenergyandinformationexchangeprocess
between EVs and DN is secured and in the other different
nodes of the system are secured. The representative case
studyconductedonIEEE33bussystemconfirmsthesystem
security;asforsuccessfulattack,33%ofinformationistobe
manipulatedinBGP.Itisclaimedfromresultsthatthesuccess
probabilityofanattackonthesystemreduceswiththeappli-
cationofByzantinebasedblockchainconsensusframework.
Infutureresearch,refinementinconsensusalgorithmwillbe
considered and assessment of performance with additional
physicalconstraintsofDNandEVswillbeevaluated.
APPENDIX
SeeTable8.
REFERENCES
[1] T.Baumeister,‘‘Literaturereviewonsmartgridcybersecurity,’’Collabora-
tiveSoftw.Develop.Lab.atUniv.Hawaii,Honolulu,HI,USA,Tech.Rep.,
2010.
[2] S.Sridhar,A.Hahn,andM.Govindarasu,‘‘Cyber-physicalsystemsecurity
fortheelectricpowergrid,’’Proc.IEEE,vol.100,no.1,pp.210–224,
Jan.2012.
[3] O.Kosut,L.Jia,R.J.Thomas,andL.Tong,‘‘Maliciousdataattacksonthe
smartgrid,’’IEEETrans.SmartGrid,vol.2,no.4,pp.645–658,Dec.2011.
[4] R. Deng, Z. Yang, M.-Y. Chow, and J. Chen, ‘‘A survey on demand
response in smart grids: Mathematical models and approaches,’’ IEEE
Trans.Ind.Informat.,vol.11,no.3,pp.570–582,Jun.2015.
[5] R. Deng, G. Xiao, and R. Lu, ‘‘Defending against false data injection
attacksonpowersystemstateestimation,’’IEEETrans.Ind.Informat.,
vol.13,no.1,pp.198–207,Feb.2017.
[6] W. Wang and Z. Lu, ‘‘Cyber security in the smart grid: Survey and
challenges,’’Comput.Netw.,vol.57,no.5,pp.1344–1371,Apr.2013.
[7] R.Jiang,R.Lu,Y.Wang,J.Luo,C.Shen,andX.Shen,‘‘Energy-theft
detectionissuesforadvancedmeteringinfrastructureinsmartgrid,’’Tin-
shhuaSci.Technol.,vol.19,no.2,pp.105–120,Apr.2014.
[8] Y.Yan,Y.Qian,H.Sharif,andD.Tipper,‘‘Asurveyoncybersecurityfor
smartgridcommunications,’’IEEECommun.SurveysTuts.,vol.14,no.4,
pp.998–1010,4thQuart.,2012.
[9] W. Bower, S. Kuszmaul, S. Gonzalez, and A. Akhil, ‘‘Solar energy
gridintegrationsystems(SEGIS)proactiveintelligentadvancesforpho-
tovotaicsystems,’’inProc.35thIEEEPhotovoltaicSpec.Conf.,Jun.2010,
pp.523–528.
[10] J.D.Dogger,B.Roossien,andF.D.J.Nieuwenhout,‘‘Characterizationof
li–ionbatteriesforintelligentmanagementofdistributedgrid–connected
median of the last 11 blocks. However, timestamp involves storage,’’ IEEE Trans. Energy Convers., vol. 26, no. 1, pp. 256–263,
the major role to calculate mining difficulty and for main- Mar.2011.
[11] W.KemptonandJ.Tomić,‘‘Vehicle-to-gridpowerimplementation:From
taining block frequency. Therefore, to maintain the liveness
stabilizingthegridtosupportinglarge-scalerenewableenergy,’’J.Power
loosesynchronyisneeded.Onanotherhand,intheBFTthe Sour.,vol.144,no.1,pp.280–294,Jun.2005.
physicalclockforconsensusisobsolete.Inthis,theconsen- [12] C.GuilleandG.Gross,‘‘Aconceptualframeworkforthevehicle-to-grid
(V2G)implementation,’’EnergyPolicy,vol.37,no.11,pp.4379–4390,
susisdifficulttoachieveinthepresenceofafaultynodein
Nov.2009.
anasynchronoussystem.
[13] E.SortommeandM.A.El-Sharkawi,‘‘Optimalschedulingofvehicle-to-
TheadvantagesofBFTconsensusoverPoWaresumma- gridenergyandancillaryservices,’’IEEETrans.SmartGrid,vol.3,no.1,
rizedinTable7. pp.351–359,Mar.2012.
[14] E.KeaneandD.Flynn,‘‘Potentialforelectricvehiclestoprovidepower
systemreserve,’’inProc.IEEEPESInnov.SmartGridTechnol.(ISGT),
VII. CONCLUSION Jan.2012,pp.1–7.
Inthispaper,aByzantinebasedblockchainconsensusframe- [15] A.K.Srivastava,B.Annabathina,andS.Kamalasadan,‘‘Thechallenges
andpolicyoptionsforintegratingplug-inhybridelectricvehicleintothe
work for the enhancement of data security of the energy
electricgrid,’’Electr.J.,vol.23,no.3,pp.83–91,Apr.2010.
tradingprocessbetweenEVsandDNisproposed.Thesys- [16] K.Clement-Nyns,E.Haesen,andJ.Driesen,‘‘Theimpactofcharging
tem first formulates the energy trading process in terms of plug–inhybridelectricvehiclesonaresidentialdistributiongrid,’’IEEE
Trans.PowerSyst.,vol.25,no.1,pp.371–380,Feb.2010.
BGPandthenblockchainisappliedtothesystemforsecur-
[17] C.Wu,H.Mohsenian-Rad,andJ.Huang,‘‘Vehicle-to-aggregatorinterac-
ing the trading process. The effectiveness of blockchain is tiongame,’’IEEETrans.SmartGrid,vol.3,no.1,pp.434–442,Mar.2012.
VOLUME8,2020 8569

