 ====== PAGE 7 ======
 A.Sheikhetal.:SecuredEnergyTradingUsingByzantine-BasedBlockchainConsensus
 FIGURE5. TherepresentationoftheBlockchainbasedcommunicationwithDNandEVparkinglotasaP2Pnetwork.
 The nodes in the P2P network are the number of EVs
 participatinginsatisfyingthedemandoftheDN.Theenergy
 demandisassumedtobeevenlydistributedamongthenum-
 berofparticipatingEVsandnotextractedfromasingleEV
 as it may result into battery degradation if the same EV is
 askedtodischargeandmeettherequirementseveryday.Let
 theenergydemandfromDNbeD ,theamountofenergy
 dem
 neededfromeachEV,Ei,isgivenby,
 FIGURE6. Energyandtransactionsflowduringlowandpeakdemand.
 utilized during peak load hours to support the grid from Ei = D dem (6)
 partiallyoverloading. EV
 p
 A. MATHEMATICALFORMULATIONOFENERGY AlltheparticipatingEV p maynothavethedesiredSOCto
 TRADINGBETWEENDNANDEV deliveri.e.C r i em ΓëñE n i andifthisisthecasethentheminimum
 The EVs with a minimum initial state of charge (SOC) i.e. C r i em amongtheEVswillbetheaggregatevaluewhichwill
 SOCi greater than or equal to 75% of EVs full charge, becontributedbyallofthem.
 denot in e i d t asCi,willonlyparticipateintheprocess. TheC r r em =min{C r i em }whereC r r em istheminimumcharge
 F
 amongallparticipatingEVs.Thiswillleadtothedischarge
 SOC i i nit ΓëÑ0.75C F , i=1,2,...,EV p ,...,EV n (3) ofoneoftheEVswithonlySOCi leftforutilizationand
 reach
 whereEV n isthenumberofEVsintheparkinglotandEV p (EV p ΓêÆ1)numberofEVstosuff
<truncated 14830 bytes>
 aspect
 scenarioII. ofblockchainassuressystemsecurity.
 energyavailableis130kWhwhichcaneasilysatisfytheD B. CASE2:SECURINGDIFFERENTNODES
 atk
 i.e.50kWh.EVsstartstofeedtherequiredpowerandsatisfy OFTHEPROPOSEDMODEL
 the false requirements of DN. However, it can be seen that Considering the N-node system and possible attacks at four
 duetomanipulateddemandtherequirementofDNremains different points in the proposed network system. As shown
 unsatisfied as shown in Fig 12. This may give rise to the inFig.14theattackcanoccurasfollows,
 adversarialeffectonthesystemwhichresultsinperformance i) Attackonsensordata/sendernode
 deterioration of the system and may consequently lead to a ii) AttackonCommunicationlinks
 blackout. iii) ManipulationintheSCADAinformation
 iv) Attackonactuators/receiverend
 3) SCENARIOIII-COMMUNICATIONBETWEENEVsAND The IEEE 33 bus system consists of 33-nodes and
 DNWITHFALSEDATA(WHEN (cid:80) Ci <D ) 32 branches. It is assumed that the parking lot has 50 EVs
 rem atk
 Considering the operating scenario with D from DN as parked at the time of energy trading. The total number of
 dem
 100 kWh and the false data communicated (D ) to EVs sensorsinthisnetworkedsystemiscalculatedbyconsidering
 atk
 indicating DN requirement as 250 kWh. As the total power the total number of sensors required for DN (nDN) as well
 sen
 available by EVs is 130 kWh it would be obviously utilized asconsideringthetotalnumberofsensorsrequiredforEVs
 tofulfill(false)gridrequirement.ItcanbeseenfromFig.13 parking lot (nEV). While calculating (nDN) the following
 sen sen
 that the DN requirement of 100 kWh is satisfied, however, featuresareconsidered[44]:Forreadingparameterssuchas
 surpluspowerfedbyEVsleadstoover-compensationofDN voltage, current, power etc. a sensor is placed at each node
 8564 VOLUME8,2020
 
 
The above content shows the entire, complete file contents of the requested file.
